India is in major turmoil at the moment
despite relatively calm foreign exchange
figures versus the US dollar the Indian
rupee is undergoing massive excavation
in an effort to prevent a black market
in currency the government has reeled in
most of the currency in
circulation this failed policy has
resulted in scenes similar to Northern
Rock and other bank failures of the past
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you today we will have
our Focus entirely on India I have many
subscribers from India I want to say
hello to each and every one of you you
have asked countless times for a video
on India so here it is and at this time
what exactly is going on they are making
the news and it is very important
to discuss it right now because I do see
some of this occurring in other places
around the world let's look at this so
these signs were posted and essentially
what it says is the 500 and the 1,000
notes ceasing to be legal tender so you
have to if you want your money bring
your currency in to the bank and deposit
that it is a
requirement or you're going to lose your
money what if you're abroad what if you
can't get out of your house maybe you
know you have some sort of condition
well then you are going to be in very
big trouble and what about the fact that
many of these
individuals don't have bank
accounts and many of these individuals
simply do not want to wait in these cues
these long lineups for hours and hours
and hours only to get a small amount of
money that they're able to deposit there
are limitations which they say will be
raised at a later date so you have to
wait in this long lineup just to deposit
some of it and this has resulted in
chaos that has
occurred throughout the cities let's
look at this so you're looking at you
know chaotic scenes outside banks in
India to days after the 51,000 rupee
notes were withdrawn as part of an
anti-corruption measure so this could be
very true I'm not going to deny that we
don't know I think there's much more
going on but let's just look at this for
a moment if you look at it these bills
aren't necessarily very massive of
course the dollars would buy you a lot
more over there but you know the
equivalent of let's say a $7
Bill isn't exactly something
huge some banks ran out of cash at
others police were called in to manage
accuses of anxious customers hoping to
change their savings for legal tender
the surprise government move is aimed at
tackling corruption and tax evasion
that's at least what the government is
coming out and saying part of this I'll
just say just since I got on the top of
my head
here part of this is all because of the
introduction of the cashless Society
many lowincome Indians Traders and
ordinary savers who rely on the cash
economy have been badly hit Banks were
shut down okay shut down to allow them
enough time to stock the new notes
following Tuesday night's announcement
so what happens if you want cash from
that bank at that time if you need to do
business at that bank at that time
they're shut down you can't do it this
is a bank holiday this is something that
could happen in your country wherever
you are from never discount that as a
possibility because there's a good
chance wherever you are from at some
point in the past people were locked out
of their accounts so it could happen
again there are also limits right here
limits Capital controls on cash
withdrawals from
ATM so you're looking at two notes
accounting look at this
85% of the cash in circulation so don't
think of it as they try to make us seem
like you know this is just something
small don't worry about it 85% of the
cash in circulation nearly all of the
cash and circulation has to be brought
back
in and recycled this is not something
that should be taken lightly that's
pretty much
everything and again people don't have
Bank there are many people who don't
have bank accounts they don't have these
traditional methods they're stuffing
their cash under their
mattress and then those individuals who
save their money in Gold something very
traditional in India are
getting real screwed over right now
let's look at
this while people have under year end
have until year end to deposit the old
notes in their bank accounts the
government has said it will scrutin
check this out I mean this is when you
know that there's corruption here it
said it will scrutinize large cash
deposits and money with Undeclared
Origins and will tax or
penalize depositors
that created a Scramble for ways to turn
the so-called black
money and evade taxation into white so
think about this for a second you got a
lot of money sitting at home under your
mattress you go to deposit into the bank
they're going to tax you for it why why
oh because you're a criminal now because
you have cash at home because you don't
want to do you know have all this money
in the banking system you have to suffer
now I get it I understand there's black
market here there is a lot of tax
evasion there's a lot of criminality
going on I get it I get that but there's
also a lot of people who don't trust
this system and they want to keep their
money under their mattress they want to
keep their money in gold and instead of
allowing this to happen just saying fine
you know what we'll put our money in the
bank you're going to tax them you're
going to penalize them for this and this
is nothing but a last ditch effort to
get more money into the banking system
because it is
failing there's actually a description
of exactly what they do to turn this
money around simply washing the money
clean according to that system but of
course it becomes a business a lot of
people are making profit off of that so
people are losing money either way
Indians have validated 82% of the bank
notes rendered worthless by the Prime
Minister according to people with
knowledge of the matter undermining the
government's estimate of unaccounted
wealth in the economy about $185 billion
has been deposited into the bank
accounts the government estimated that
about five that would be uh five
trillion rupees of the 5 15 trillion
rupees sucked out by modi's move would
stay Undeclared implying that this was
Cash stashed away to evade taxes known
locally as black
money this is the type of thing that we
have to watch out for not just in India
but in other places as well so India did
it this time they could certainly do it
again and again and again but it should
be a lesson to other countries as well
and then we look at this I I mean I
can't out of all the countries in the
world I can't believe I've seen
this talking about
restrictions on gold ownership for
Indians now you talk about this in
countries like Canada the US the UK
Australia and others people are worried
about that will I be allowed to hold
gold will they nationalize it will they
confiscate it and you look at
this in connection with search
operations for black money the
government on Thursday
clarified on the exemption limits for
seizure okay seizure of gold jewelry and
ornaments we're not talking about gold
Boolean here we're not talking about
coins we're talking about jewelry and
ornaments okay things that have been
passed down from generation to
generation to generation but don't worry
about it your gold is safe according to
the government that's a
quote 500 gram for married women 250
gram for unmarried women and 100 gram
per male member of the family wow now
you might think look 500 gram you know
that's that's a lot I could deal with
that so you have raids
taking place search and seizure
operations on people in
India and they're doing this
simultaneously so if you want to take
that money that is going to be put out
of circulation and you wanted to buy
some gold with it well you got another
thing coming because you are maxed out
for how much you can have and they could
raid your house at any day and surely if
you have this illegal thing in your
house all of a sudden they take it
away and this right here shows you the
level of criminality people are are you
know they're so blind sometimes thinking
it can happen here it can happen here
out of all the places in the world to
have restrictions on gold it's India
this is you know and I'll get into I
might as well just get into it right
away you
know let let me just cover it right away
this whole article here out of the
Hindu talks about the
fact that you know you can't do
this these are things that have been
passed down from generation to
generation it's so ingrained in the
society and the and the traditions in
India to have gold as a storage of
wealth and as you know the ornamental
value the sort of that sentimental value
as part of the society part of the
culture and they are crushing that by
doing this I hope that they don't
actually go ahead with it but as far as
I'm aware this is already in place and
that right there this is just goes to
show you people you know they maybe from
the US or the UK or whatever and they're
thinking they're not going to do this to
me they're not how can they do it how
how can they actually manage it well I
assure you wherever you're from if the
government wants to kick down your door
they're going to do that they're already
doing that for other cases if they can
search and find some valuables I assure
you they're going to do that they're
already on the side of the road you know
pulling people over giving them tickets
for things that are absolutely so silly
for parking an inch too far from the
curb they're willing to give you that
ticket you don't pay the ticket you go
to jail things like this all all of
this and you know think they're going to
do that for some valuables like gold oh
I assure you they just
might this here is talking
about 1971 Nixon Shock the World taking
the dollar off the gold standard the go
uh the dollar has been on the gold
standard since the Breton Woods the
biggest bombshell for gold investors in
45 years since the Nixon announ
announcement may be ahead that bombshell
is a potential ban on the import of gold
into India if it happens there's a high
prob probability of a one day well he's
suggesting a one- day drop in Gold of
$200 think about this India being one of
the largest consumers of gold and it's
not because of you know investment
although sort of is this is all
ingrained in the culture and think about
is if they ban an import on gold that
would be so shocking so threatening it
would be a very very big disaster for
the gold price it would be a disaster
for the people as well in India this
would obviously cause a shock wve
throughout the system I don't know how
it would affect necessarily the prices
locally in gold and then have sort of an
effect on the global gold market as well
I don't know what they're doing here all
I can say is that number one this is all
part of a cashless Society number two
this is what you would do if you were a
failed government
and you wanted to bring in that money
and have them invest in their whether
it's bank accounts whether it's um you
know mutual fund stock markets anything
of this sort bonds
whatever that's what I see happening
right here at this time although there's
so much more going on you have the fact
that this I'll leave it off with
this there's so much poverty in India at
this time and the numbers vary they
actually
exclude certain groups of people that
lower end of the Spectrum in India The
Untouchables so that range could be
anywhere from 240 million to 600 million
poor people but either number you choose
it is dramatic and then you have this
kind of thing that takes place where a
lot of these people they don't have bank
accounts so all of a sudden now they
have black market money as the only
thing maybe they only have a few dollars
but it's now considered perhaps Black
Market I mean it's it's unbelievable
what they're doing here I don't know
what this going to come of this but it
is not good
news if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs
up if you don't like me if you don't
like the video
video
Heck if you like Janet yelling if you
like Ben
banki just give me a thumbs down share
your
opinion last but not least if you found
this video informative you'll definitely
find my book The Money GPS even more
informative you can look through the
book at Amazon where you can see
diagrams and uh all the charts that I've
done here just go over there they have a
look inside feature which will allow you
to flip through the pages of the book
and see if you like it take care